<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: http://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Her Majesty's Servants</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="her-majestys-servants" epub:type="chapter">
<h2 epub:type="title">Her Majesty's Servants</h2>

<div class="poem">
<div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">You can work it out by Fractions or by simple Rule of Three,</span><br />
<span class="i0">But the way of Tweedle-dum is not the way of Tweedle-dee.</span><br />
<span class="i0">You can twist it, you can turn it, you can plait it till you drop<br /></span><br />
<span class="i0">But the way of Pilly-Winky's not the way of Winkie-Pop!</span>
</div>
</div>



<p>It had been raining heavily for one whole month&mdash;raining
on a camp of thirty thousand men,
thousands of camels, elephants, horses, bullocks,
and mules, all gathered together at a place called
Rawal Pindi, to be reviewed by the Viceroy of
India. He was receiving a visit from the Amir
of Afghanistan&mdash;a wild king of a very wild country;
and the Amir had brought with him for a
bodyguard eight hundred men and horses who
had never seen a camp or a locomotive before in
their lives&mdash;savage men and savage horses from
somewhere at the back of Central Asia. Every
night a mob of these horses would be sure to
break their heel-ropes, and stampede up and
down the camp through the mud in the dark, or
the camels would break loose and run about
and fall over the ropes of the tents, and you
can imagine how pleasant that was for men
trying to go to sleep. My tent lay far away
from the camel lines, and I thought it was safe;
but one night a man popped his head in and
shouted, "Get out, quick! They're coming!
My tent's gone!"</p>

<p>I knew who "they" were; so I put on my
boots and waterproof and scuttled out into the
slush. Little Vixen, my fox-terrier, went out
through the other side; and then there was a
roaring and a grunting and bubbling, and I saw
the tent cave in, as the pole snapped, and begin
to dance about like a mad ghost. A camel had
blundered into it, and wet and angry as I was, I
could not help laughing. Then I ran on, because
I did not know how many camels might have got
loose, and before long I was out of sight of the
camp, plowing my way through the mud.</p>


<p>At last I fell over the tail-end of a gun, and by
that knew I was somewhere near the Artillery
lines where the cannon were stacked at night. As
I did not want to plowter about any more in the
drizzle and the dark, I put my waterproof over
the muzzle of one gun, and made a sort of wigwam
with two or three rammers that I found, and
lay along the tail of another gun, wondering where
Vixen had got to, and where I might be.</p>

<p>Just as I was getting ready to sleep I heard a
jingle of harness and a grunt, and a mule passed
me shaking his wet ears. He belonged to a
screw-gun battery, for I could hear the rattle
of the straps and rings and chains and things on
his saddle-pad. The screw-guns are tidy little
cannon made in two pieces, that are screwed together
when the time comes to use them. They
are taken up mountains, anywhere that a mule
can find a road, and they are very useful for
fighting in rocky country.</p>

<p>Behind the mule there was a camel, with his
big soft feet squelching and slipping in the mud,
and his neck bobbing to and fro like a strayed
hen's. Luckily, I knew enough of beast language&mdash;not
wild-beast language, but camp-beast language,
of course&mdash;from the natives to know what
he was saying.</p>

<p>He must have been the one that flopped into
my tent, for he called to the mule, "What shall I
do? Where shall I go? I have fought with a
white thing that waved, and it took a stick and
hit me on the neck." (That was my broken tentpole,
and I was very glad to know it.) "Shall
we run on?"</p>

<p>"Oh, it was you," said the mule, "you and
your friends, that have been disturbing the camp?
All right. You'll be beaten for this in the morning;
but I may as well give you something on
account now."</p>

<p>I heard the harness jingle as the mule backed
and caught the camel two kicks in the ribs that
rang like a drum. "Another time," he said,
"you'll know better than to run through a mule-battery
at night, shouting 'Thieves and fire!'
Sit down, and keep your silly neck quiet."</p>

<p>The camel doubled up camel-fashion, like a
two-foot rule, and sat down whimpering. There
was a regular beat of hoofs in the darkness, and
a big troop-horse cantered up as steadily as
though he were on parade, jumped a gun-tail,
and landed close to the mule.</p>

<p>"It's disgraceful," he said, blowing out his nostrils.
"Those camels have racketed through our
lines again&mdash;the third time this week. How's a
horse to keep his condition if he isn't allowed to
sleep? Who's here?"</p>

<p>"I'm the breech-piece mule of number two
gun of the First Screw Battery," said the mule,
"and the other's one of your friends. He's
waked me up too. Who are you?"</p>

<p>"Number Fifteen, E troop, Ninth Lancers&mdash;Dick
Cunliffe's horse. Stand over a little,
there."</p>

<p>"Oh, beg your pardon," said the mule. "It's
too dark to see much. Aren't these camels too
sickening for anything? I walked out of my
lines to get a little peace and quiet here."</p>

<p>"My lords," said the camel humbly, "we
dreamed bad dreams in the night, and we were
very much afraid. I am only a baggage-camel
of the 39th Native Infantry, and I am not so
brave as you are, my lords."</p>

<p>"Then why the pickets didn't you stay and
carry baggage for the 39th Native Infantry, instead
of running all round the camp?" said the
mule.</p>

<p>"They were such very bad dreams," said the
camel. "I am sorry. Listen! What is that?
Shall we run on again?"</p>

<p>"Sit down," said the mule, "or you'll snap
your long legs between the guns." He cocked
one ear and listened. "Bullocks!" he said;
"gun-bullocks. On my word, you and your
friends have waked the camp very thoroughly.
It takes a good deal of prodding to put up a
gun-bullock."</p>

<p>I heard a chain dragging along the ground, and
a yoke of the great sulky white bullocks that drag
the heavy siege-guns when the elephants won't go
any nearer to the firing, came shouldering along
together; and almost stepping on the chain was
another battery-mule, calling wildly for "Billy."</p>

<p>"That's one of our recruits," said the old mule
to the troop-horse. "He's calling for me. Here,
youngster, stop squealing; the dark never hurt
anybody yet."</p>

<p>The gun-bullocks lay down together and began
chewing the cud, but the young mule huddled
close to Billy.</p>

<p>"Things!" he said; "fearful and horrible
things, Billy! They came into our lines while
we were asleep. D'you think they'll kill us?"</p>

<p>"I've a very great mind to give you a number
one kicking," said Billy. "The idea of a fourteen-hand
mule with your training disgracing
the battery before this gentleman!"</p>

<p>"Gently, gently!" said the troop-horse. "Remember
they are always like this to begin with.
The first time I ever saw a man (it was in Australia
when I was a three-year-old) I ran for
half a day, and if I'd seen a camel I should have
been running still."</p>

<p>Nearly all our horses for the English cavalry
are brought to India from Australia, and
are broken in by the troopers themselves.</p>

<p>"True enough," said Billy. "Stop shaking,
youngster. The first time they put the full
harness with all its chains on my back, I stood
on my fore legs and kicked every bit of it off.
I hadn't learned the real science of kicking then,
but the battery said they had never seen anything
like it."</p>

<p>"But this wasn't harness or anything that
jingled," said the young mule. "You know I
don't mind that now, Billy. It was Things like
trees, and they fell up and down the lines and
bubbled; and my head-rope broke, and I couldn't
find my driver, and I couldn't find you, Billy,
so I ran off with&mdash;with these gentlemen."</p>

<p>"H'm!" said Billy. "As soon as I heard the
camels were loose I came away on my own account,
quietly. When a battery&mdash;a screw-gun
mule calls gun-bullocks gentlemen, he must be
very badly shaken up. Who are you fellows on
the ground there?"</p>

<p>The gun-bullocks rolled their cuds, and answered
both together: "The seventh yoke of the
first gun of the Big Gun Battery. We were
asleep when the camels came, but when we were
trampled on we got up and walked away. It is
better to lie quiet in the mud than to be disturbed
on good bedding. We told your friend
here that there was nothing to be afraid of, but he
knew so much that he thought otherwise. Wah!"</p>

<p>They went on chewing.</p>

<p>"That comes of being afraid," said Billy.
"You get laughed at by gun-bullocks. I hope
you like it, young 'un."</p>

<p>The young mule's teeth snapped, and I heard
him say something about not being afraid of
any beefy old bullock in the world; but the bullocks
only clicked their horns together and went
on chewing.</p>

<p>"Now, don't be angry <i>after</i> you've been
afraid. That's the worst kind of cowardice," said
the troop-horse. "Anybody can be forgiven for
being scared in the night, <i>I</i> think, if they see
things they don't understand. We've broken
out of our pickets, again and again, four hundred
and fifty of us, just because a new recruit got to
telling tales of whip-snakes at home in Australia
till we were scared to death of the loose ends of
our head-ropes."</p>



<p>"That's all very well in camp," said Billy;
"I'm not above stampeding myself, for the fun
of the thing, when I haven't been out for a day
or two; but what do you do on active service?"</p>

<p>"Oh, that's quite another set of new shoes,"
said the troop-horse. "Dick Cunliffe's on my
back then, and drives his knees into me, and all
I have to do is to watch where I am putting my
feet, and to keep my hind legs well under me, and
be bridle-wise."</p>

<p>"What's bridle-wise?" said the young mule.</p>

<p>"By the Blue Gums of the Back Blocks,"
snorted the troop-horse, "do you mean to say
that you aren't taught to be bridle-wise in your
business? How can you do anything, unless you
can spin round at once when the rein is pressed
on your neck? It means life or death to your
man, and of course that's life or death to you.
Get round with your hind legs under you the instant
you feel the rein on your neck. If you
haven't room to swing round, rear up a little and
come round on your hind legs. That's being
bridle-wise."</p>

<p>"We aren't taught that way," said Billy the
mule stiffly. "We're taught to obey the man
at our head: step off when he says so, and step
in when he says so. I suppose it comes to the
same thing. Now, with all this fine fancy business
and rearing, which must be very bad for
your hocks, what do you <i>do</i>?"</p>

<p>"That depends," said the troop-horse. "Generally
I have to go in among a lot of yelling, hairy
men with knives,&mdash;long shiny knives, worse than
the farrier's knives,&mdash;and I have to take care that
Dick's boot is just touching the next man's boot
without crushing it. I can see Dick's lance to the
right of my right eye, and I know I'm safe. I
shouldn't care to be the man or horse that stood
up to Dick and me when we're in a hurry."</p>

<p>"Don't the knives hurt?" said the young
mule.</p>

<p>"Well, I got one cut across the chest once,
but that wasn't Dick's fault&mdash;"</p>

<p>"A lot I should have cared whose fault it was,
if it hurt!" said the young mule.</p>

<p>"You must," said the troop-horse. "If you
don't trust your man, you may as well run away
at once. That's what some of our horses do,
and I don't blame them. As I was saying, it
wasn't Dick's fault. The man was lying on the
ground, and I stretched myself not to tread on
him, and he slashed up at me. Next time I
have to go over a man lying down I shall step
on him&mdash;hard."</p>


<p>"H'm!" said Billy; "it sounds very foolish.
Knives are dirty things at any time. The
proper thing to do is to climb up a mountain
with a well-balanced saddle, hang on by all four
feet and your ears too, and creep and crawl and
wriggle along, till you come out hundreds of feet
above any one else, on a ledge where there's
just room enough for your hoofs. Then you
stand still and keep quiet,&mdash;never ask a man to
hold your head, young 'un,&mdash;keep quiet while the
guns are being put together, and then you watch
the little poppy shells drop down into the tree-tops
ever so far below."</p>

<p>"Don't you ever trip?" said the troop-horse.</p>

<p>"They say that when a mule trips you can
split a hen's ear," said Billy. "Now and again
<i>per-haps</i> a badly packed saddle will upset a
mule, but it's very seldom. I wish I could show
you our business. It's beautiful. Why, it took
me three years to find out what the men were
driving at. The science of the thing is never to
show up against the sky-line, because, if you do,
you may get fired at. Remember that, young
'un. Always keep hidden as much as possible,
even if you have to go a mile out of your way.
I lead the battery when it comes to that sort of
climbing."</p>

<p>"Fired at without the chance of running into
the people who are firing!" said the troop-horse,
thinking hard. "I couldn't stand that. I should
want to charge, with Dick."</p>

<p>"Oh no, you wouldn't; you know that as
soon as the guns are in position <i>they'll</i> do all
the charging. That's scientific and neat; but
knives&mdash;pah!"</p>

<p>The baggage-camel had been bobbing his
head to and fro for some time past, anxious to
get a word in edgeways. Then I heard him
say, as he cleared his throat, nervously:</p>

<p>"I&mdash;I&mdash;I have fought a little, but not in that
climbing way or that running way."</p>

<p>"No. Now you mention it," said Billy, "you
don't look as though you were made for climbing
or running&mdash;much. Well, how was it, old
Hay-bales?"</p>

<p>"The proper way," said the camel. "We all
sat down&mdash;"</p>

<p>"Oh, my crupper and breastplate!" said the
troop-horse under his breath. "Sat down?"</p>

<p>"We sat down&mdash;a hundred of us," the camel
went on, "in a big square, and the men piled our
packs and saddles outside the square, and they
fired over our backs, the men did, on all sides of
the square."</p>

<p>"What sort of men? Any men that came
along?" said the troop-horse. "They teach us in
riding-school to lie down and let our masters fire
across us, but Dick Cunliffe is the only man I'd
trust to do that. It tickles my girths, and, besides,
I can't see with my head on the ground."</p>

<p>"What does it matter who fires across you?"
said the camel. "There are plenty of men and
plenty of other camels close by, and a great
many clouds of smoke. I am not frightened
then. I sit still and wait."</p>

<p>"And yet," said Billy, "you dream bad dreams
and upset the camp at night. Well! well! Before
I'd lie down, not to speak of sitting down,
and let a man fire across me, my heels and his
head would have something to say to each other.
Did you ever hear anything so awful as that?"</p>

<p>There was a long silence, and then one of the
gun-bullocks lifted up his big head and said,
"This is very foolish indeed. There is only one
way of fighting."</p>

<p>"Oh, go on," said Billy. "<i>Please</i> don't mind
me. I suppose you fellows fight standing on
your tails?"</p>

<p>"Only one way," said the two together. (They
must have been twins.) "This is that way. To
put all twenty yoke of us to the big gun as soon
as Two Tails trumpets." ("Two Tails" is camp
slang for the elephant.)</p>

<p>"What does Two Tails trumpet for?" said the
young mule.</p>

<p>"To show that he is not going any nearer to
the smoke on the other side. Two Tails is a
great coward. Then we tug the big gun all together&mdash;<i>Heya</i>&mdash;<i>Hullah!
Heeyah! Hullah!</i>
<i>We</i> do not climb like cats nor run like calves.
We go across the level plain, twenty yoke of us,
till we are unyoked again, and we graze while
the big guns talk across the plain to some town
with mud walls, and pieces of the wall fall out,
and the dust goes up as though many cattle were
coming home."</p>

<p>"Oh! And you choose that time for grazing
do you?" said the young mule.</p>

<p>"That time or any other. Eating is always
good. We eat till we are yoked up again and
tug the gun back to where Two Tails is waiting
for it. Sometimes there are big guns in the city
that speak back, and some of us are killed, and
then there is all the more grazing for those that
are left. This is Fate&mdash;nothing but Fate. None
the less, Two Tails is a great coward. That is
the proper way to fight. We are brothers from
Hapur. Our father was a sacred bull of Shiva.
We have spoken."</p>

<p>"Well, I've certainly learned something tonight,"
said the troop-horse. "Do you gentlemen
of the screw-gun battery feel inclined to eat
when you are being fired at with big guns, and
Two Tails is behind you?"</p>

<p>"About as much as we feel inclined to sit
down and let men sprawl all over us, or run into
people with knives. I never heard such stuff.
A mountain ledge, a well-balanced load, a driver
you can trust to let you pick your own way, and
I'm your mule; but the other things&mdash;no!"
said Billy, with a stamp of his foot.</p>

<p>"Of course," said the troop-horse, "every one
is not made in the same way, and I can quite see
that your family, on your father's side, would fail
to understand a great many things."</p>

<p>"Never you mind my family on my father's
side," said Billy angrily; for every mule hates to
be reminded that his father was a donkey. "My
father was a Southern gentleman, and he could
pull down and bite and kick into rags every horse
he came across. Remember that, you big brown
Brumby!"</p>

<p>Brumby means wild horse without any breeding.
Imagine the feelings of Sunol if a car-horse
called her a "skate," and you can imagine
how the Australian horse felt. I saw the white
of his eye glitter in the dark.</p>

<p>"See here, you son of an imported Malaga
jackass," he said between his teeth, "I'd have
you know that I'm related on my mother's side
to Carbine, winner of the Melbourne Cup, and
where <i>I</i> come from we aren't accustomed to
being ridden over roughshod by any parrot-mouthed,
pig-headed mule in a pop-gun peashooter
battery. Are you ready?"</p>

<p>"On your hind legs!" squealed Billy. They
both reared up facing each other, and I was expecting
a furious fight, when a gurgly, rumbly
voice called out of the darkness to the right&mdash;"Children,
what are you fighting about there?
Be quiet."</p>

<p>Both beasts dropped down with a snort of disgust,
for neither horse nor mule can bear to listen
to an elephant's voice.</p>

<p>"It's Two Tails!" said the troop-horse. "I
can't stand him. A tail at each end isn't fair!"</p>

<p>"My feelings exactly," said Billy, crowding
into the troop-horse for company. "We're very
alike in some things."</p>

<p>"I suppose we've inherited them from our
mothers," said the troop-horse. "It's not worth
quarreling about. Hi! Two Tails, are you tied
up?"</p>

<p>"Yes," said Two Tails, with a laugh all up his
trunk. "I'm picketed for the night. I've heard
what you fellows have been saying. But don't
be afraid. I'm not coming over."</p>

<p>The bullocks and the camel said, half aloud:
"Afraid of Two Tails&mdash;what nonsense!" And
the bullocks went on: "We are sorry that you
heard, but it is true. Two Tails, why are you
afraid of the guns when they fire?"</p>

<p>"Well," said Two Tails, rubbing one hind leg
against the other, exactly like a little boy saying
a piece, "I don't quite know whether you'd
understand."</p>

<p>"We don't, but we have to pull the guns,"
said the bullocks.</p>

<p>"I know it, and I know you are a good deal
braver than you think you are. But it's different
with me. My battery captain called me a
Pachydermatous Anachronism the other day."</p>

<p>"That's another way of fighting, I suppose?"
said Billy, who was recovering his spirits.</p>

<p>"<i>You</i> don't know what that means, of course,
but I do. It means betwixt and between, and
that is just where I am. I can see inside my
head what will happen when a shell bursts;
and you bullocks can't."</p>

<p>"I can," said the troop-horse. "At least a
little bit. I try not to think about it."</p>

<p>"I can see more than you, and I <i>do</i> think
about it. I know there's a great deal of me to
take care of, and I know that nobody knows how
to cure me when I'm sick. All they can do is to
stop my driver's pay till I get well, and I can't
trust my driver."</p>

<p>"Ah!" said the troop-horse. "That explains
it. I can trust Dick."</p>

<p>"You could put a whole regiment of Dicks on
my back without making me feel any better. I
know just enough to be uncomfortable, and not
enough to go on in spite of it."</p>

<p>"We do not understand," said the bullocks.</p>

<p>"I know you don't. I'm not talking to you.
You don't know what blood is."</p>

<p>"We do," said the bullocks. "It is red stuff
that soaks into the ground and smells."</p>

<p>The troop-horse gave a kick and a bound and
a snort.</p>

<p>"Don't talk of it," he said. "I can smell it
now, just thinking of it. It makes me want to
run&mdash;when I haven't Dick on my back."</p>

<p>"But it is not here," said the camel and the
bullocks. "Why are you so stupid?"</p>

<p>"It's vile stuff," said Billy. "I don't want to
run, but I don't want to talk about it."</p>

<p>"There you are!" said Two Tails, waving his
tail to explain.</p>

<p>"Surely. Yes, we have been here all night,"
said the bullocks.</p>

<p>Two Tails stamped his foot till the iron ring
on it jingled. "Oh, I'm not talking to <i>you</i>.
You can't see inside your heads."</p>

<p>"No. We see out of our four eyes," said the
bullocks. "We see straight in front of us."</p>

<p>"If I could do that and nothing else you
wouldn't be needed to pull the big guns at all.
If I was like my captain&mdash;he can see things
inside his head before the firing begins, and he
shakes all over, but he knows too much to run
away&mdash;if I was like him I could pull the guns.
But if I were as wise as all that I should never be
here. I should be a king in the forest, as I used
to be, sleeping half the day and bathing when I
liked. I haven't had a good bath for a month."</p>

<p>"That's all very fine," said Billy; "but giving
a thing a long name doesn't make it any better."</p>

<p>"H'sh!" said the troop-horse. "I think I understand
what Two Tails means."</p>

<p>"You'll understand better in a minute," said
Two Tails angrily. "Now, just you explain to
me why you don't like <i>this</i>!"</p>

<p>He began trumpeting furiously at the top of
his trumpet.</p>

<p>"Stop that!" said Billy and the troop-horse
together, and I could hear them stamp and
shiver. An elephant's trumpeting is always
nasty, especially on a dark night.</p>

<p>"I sha'n't stop," said Two Tails. "Won't
you explain that, please? <i>Hhrrmþh! Rrrt!
Rrrmph! Rrrhha!</i>" Then he stopped suddenly,
and I heard a little whimper in the dark,
and knew that Vixen had found me at last. She
knew as well as I did that if there is one thing
in the world the elephant is more afraid of than
another it is a little barking dog; so she stopped
to bully Two Tails in his pickets, and yapped
round his big feet. Two Tails shuffled and
squeaked. "Go away, little dog!" he said.
"Don't snuff at my ankles, or I 'll kick at you.
Good little dog&mdash;nice little doggie, then! Go
home, you yelping little beast! Oh, why
doesn't some one take her away? She'll bite
me in a minute."</p>

<p>"Seems to me," said Billy to the troop-horse,
"that our friend Two Tails is afraid of most
things. Now, if I had a full meal for every dog
I've kicked across the parade-ground, I should
be as fat as Two Tails nearly."</p>

<p>I whistled, and Vixen ran up to me, muddy all
over, and licked my nose, and told me a long
tale about hunting for me all through the camp.
I never let her know that I understood beast
talk, or she would have taken all sorts of liberties.
So I buttoned her into the breast of my
overcoat, and Two Tails shuffled and stamped
and growled to himself.</p>

<p>"Extraordinary! Most extraordinary!" he
said. "It runs in our family. Now, where has
that nasty little beast gone to?"</p>

<p>I heard him feeling about with his trunk.</p>

<p>"We all seem to be affected in various ways," he
went on, blowing his nose. "Now, you gentlemen
were alarmed, I believe, when I trumpeted."</p>

<p>"Not alarmed, exactly," said the troop-horse,
"but it made me feel as though I had hornets
where my saddle ought to be. Don't begin
again."</p>

<p>"I'm frightened of a little dog, and the camel
here is frightened by bad dreams in the night."</p>

<p>"It is very lucky for us that we haven't all got
to fight in the same way," said the troop-horse.</p>

<p>"What I want to know," said the young mule,
who had been quiet for a long time&mdash;"what <i>I</i>
want to know is, why we have to fight at all."</p>

<p>"Because we are told to," said the troop-horse,
with a snort of contempt.</p>

<p>"Orders," said Billy the mule; and his teeth
snapped.</p>

<p>"<i>Hukm hai!</i>" (It is an order), said the camel
with a gurgle; and Two Tails and the bullocks
repeated, "<i>Hukm hai!</i>"</p>

<p>"Yes, but who gives the orders?" said the recruit-mule.</p>

<p>"The man who walks at your head&mdash;Or sits on
your back&mdash;Or holds the nose-rope&mdash;Or twists
your tail," said Billy and the troop-horse and the
camel and the bullocks one after the other.</p>

<p>"But who gives them the orders?"</p>

<p>"Now you want to know too much, young
un," said Billy, "and that is one way of getting
kicked. All you have to do is to obey the man
at your head and ask no questions."</p>

<p>"He's quite right," said Two Tails. "I can't
always obey, because I'm betwixt and between;
but Billy's right. Obey the man next to you
who gives the order, or you'll stop all the battery,
besides getting a thrashing."</p>

<p>The gun-bullocks got up to go. "Morning is
coming," they said. "We will go back to our
lines. It is true that we see only out of our eyes,
and we are not very clever; but still, we are the
only people to-night who have not been afraid.
Good night, you brave people."</p>

<p>Nobody answered, and the troop-horse said,
to change the conversation, "Where's that little
dog? A dog means a man somewhere near."</p>

<p>"Here I am," yapped Vixen, "under the gun-tail
with my man. You big, blundering beast
of a camel you, you upset our tent. My man's
very angry."</p>

<p>"Phew!" said the bullocks. "He must be
white?"</p>

<p>"Of course he is," said Vixen. "Do you
suppose I'm looked after by a black bullock-driver?"</p>

<p>"<i>Huah! Ouach! Ugh!</i>" said the bullocks.
"Let us get away quickly."</p>

<p>They plunged forward in the mud, and managed
somehow to run their yoke on the pole of
an ammunition-wagon, where it jammed.</p>

<p>"Now you <i>have</i> done it," said Billy calmly.
"Don't struggle. You're hung up till daylight.
What on earth's the matter?"</p>

<p>The bullocks went off into the long hissing
snorts that Indian cattle give, and pushed and
crowded and slued and stamped and slipped and
nearly fell down in the mud, grunting savagely.</p>

<p>"You'll break your necks in a minute," said
the troop-horse. "What's the matter with white
men? I live with 'em."</p>

<p>"They&mdash;eat&mdash;us! Pull!" said the near bullock:
the yoke snapped with a twang, and they
lumbered off together.</p>

<p>I never knew before what made Indian cattle
so afraid of Englishmen. We eat beef&mdash;a thing
that no cattle-driver touches&mdash;and of course the
cattle do not like it.</p>

<p>"May I be flogged with my own pad-chains!
Who'd have thought of two big lumps like those
losing their heads?" said Billy.</p>

<p>"Never mind. I'm going to look at this man.
Most of the white men, I know, have things in
their pockets," said the troop-horse.</p>

<p>"I'll leave you, then. I can't say I'm overfond
of 'em myself. Besides, white men who
haven't a place to sleep in are more than likely
to be thieves, and I've a good deal of Government
property on my back. Come along, young
'un, and we'll go back to our lines. Good-night,
Australia! See you on parade to-morrow, I suppose.
Good-night, old Hay-bale!&mdash;try to control
your feelings, won't you? Good-night, Two
Tails! If you pass us on the ground to-morrow,
don't trumpet. It spoils our formation."</p>

<p>Billy the mule stumped off with the swaggering
limp of an old campaigner, as the troop-horse's
head came nuzzling into my breast, and
I gave him biscuits; while Vixen, who is a most
conceited little dog, told him fibs about the scores
of horses that she and I kept.</p>

<p>"I'm coming to the parade to-morrow in my
dog-cart," she said. "Where will you be?"</p>

<p>"On the left hand of the second squadron. I
set the time for all my troop, little lady," he said
politely. "Now I must go back to Dick. My
tail's all muddy, and he'll have two hours' hard
work dressing me for the parade."</p>

<p>The big parade of all the thirty thousand men
was held that afternoon, and Vixen and I had a
good place close to the Viceroy and the Amir of
Afghanistan, with his high big black hat of astrakhan
wool and the great diamond star in the
center. The first part of the review was all sunshine,
and the regiments went by in wave upon
wave of legs all moving together, and guns all
in a line, till our eyes grew dizzy. Then the
cavalry came up, to the beautiful cavalry canter
of "Bonnie Dundee," and Vixen cocked her ear
where she sat on the dog-cart. The second
squadron of the lancers shot by, and there was
the troop-horse, with his tail like spun silk, his
head pulled into his breast, one ear forward and
one back, setting the time for all his squadron,
his legs going as smoothly as waltz-music. Then
the big guns came by, and I saw Two Tails and
two other elephants harnessed in line to a forty-pounder
siege-gun while twenty yoke of oxen
walked behind. The seventh pair had a new
yoke, and they looked rather stiff and tired.
Last came the screw-guns, and Billy the mule
carried himself as though he commanded all the
troops, and his harness was oiled and polished
till it winked. I gave a cheer all by myself for
Billy the mule, but he never looked right or left.</p>

<p>The rain began to fall again, and for a while it
was too misty to see what the troops were doing.
They had made a big half-circle across the plain,
and were spreading out into a line. That line
grew and grew and grew till it was three-quarters
of a mile long from wing to wing&mdash;one solid
wall of men, horses, and guns. Then it came on
straight toward the Viceroy and the Amir, and
as it got nearer the ground began to shake,
like the deck of a steamer when the engines
are going fast.</p>

<p>Unless you have been there you cannot
imagine what a frightening effect this steady
come-down of troops has on the spectators, even
when they know it is only a review. I looked
at the Amir. Up till then he had not shown the
shadow of a sign of astonishment or anything
else; but now his eyes began to get bigger and
bigger, and he picked up the reins on his horse's
neck and looked behind him. For a minute it
seemed as though he were going to draw his
sword and slash his way out through the English
men and women in the carriages at the back.
Then the advance stopped dead, the ground
stood still, the whole line saluted, and thirty
bands began to play all together. That was the
end of the review, and the regiments went off to
their camps in the rain; and an infantry band
struck up with&mdash;</p>

<div class="poem">
<div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">The animals went in two by two,</span><br />
<span class="i4">Hurrah!</span><br />
<span class="i0">The animals went in two by two,</span><br />
<span class="i0">The elephant and the battery mu-</span><br />
<span class="i0">l', and they all got into the Ark,</span><br />
<span class="i2">For to get out of the rain!</span>
</div>
</div>

<p>Then I heard an old, grizzled, long-haired
Central Asian chief, who had come down with
the Amir, asking questions of a native officer.</p>


<p>"Now," said he, "in what manner was this
wonderful thing done?"</p>

<p>And the officer answered, "There was an order,
and they obeyed."</p>

<p>"But are the beasts as wise as the men?"
said the chief.</p>

<p>"They obey, as the men do. Mule, horse,
elephant, or bullock, he obeys his driver, and the
driver his sergeant, and the sergeant his lieutenant,
and the lieutenant his captain, and the captain
his major, and the major his colonel, and the
colonel his brigadier commanding three regiments,
and the brigadier his general, who obeys
the Viceroy, who is the servant of the Empress.
Thus it is done."</p>

<p>"Would it were so in Afghanistan!" said the
chief; "for there we obey only our own wills."</p>

<p>"And for that reason," said the native officer,
twirling his mustache, "your Amir whom you do
not obey must come here and take orders from
our Viceroy."</p>

<p class="center"><a name="song7" id="song7"></a>PARADE-SONG OF THE CAMP ANIMALS</p>

<p class="center">ELEPHANTS OF THE GUN-TEAM</p>

<div class="poem">
<div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">We lent to Alexander the strength of Hercules,</span><br />
<span class="i0">The wisdom of our foreheads, the cunning of our knees;</span><br />
<span class="i0">We bowed our necks to service; they ne'er were loosed again,&mdash;</span><br />
<span class="i0">Make way there, way for the ten-foot teams</span><br />
<span class="i4">Of the Forty-Pounder train!</span>
</div>

<p class="center">GUN-BULLOCKS</p>

<div class="stanza">
<span class="i0">Those heroes in their harnesses avoid a cannon-ball,</span><br />
<span class="i0">And what they know of powder upsets them one and all;</span><br />
<span class="i0">Then <i>we</i> come into action and tug the guns again,&mdash;</span><br />
<span class="i0">Make way there, way for the twenty yoke</span><br />
<span class="i4">Of the Forty-Pounder train!</span>
</div>

<p class="center">CAVALRY HORSES</p>

<p class="thangindent">By the brand on my withers, the finest of tunes</p>
<p class="mhangindent">Is played by the Lancers, Hussars, and Dragoons,</p>
<p class="mhangindent">And it's sweeter than "Stables" or "Water" to me,</p>
<p class="bhangindent">The Cavalry Canter of "Bonnie Dundee"!</p>

<p class="thangindent">Then feed us and break us and handle and groom,</p>
<p class="mhangindent">And give us good riders and plenty of room,</p>
<p class="mhangindent">And launch us in column of squadrons and see</p>
<p class="bhangindent">The way of the war-horse to "Bonnie Dundee"!</p>
</div>

<p class="center">SCREW-GUN MULES</p>

<p class="thangindent">As me and my companions were scrambling up a hill,</p>
<p class="mhangindent">The path was lost in rolling stones, but we went forward still;</p>
<p class="mhangindent">For we can wriggle and climb, my lads, and turn up everywhere,</p>
<p class="bhangindent">And it's our delight on a mountain height, with a leg or two to spare!</p>

<p class="thangindent">Good luck to every sergeant, then, that lets us pick our road;</p>
<p class="mhangindent">Bad luck to all the driver-men that cannot pack a load:</p>
<p class="mhangindent">For we can wriggle and climb, my lads, and turn up everywhere,</p>
<p class="bhangindent">And it's our delight on a mountain height with a leg or two to spare!</p>

<div class="poem">
<p class="center">COMMISSARIAT CAMELS</p>

<p class="thangindent">We haven't a camelty tune of our own</p>
<p class="mhangindent">To help us trollop along,</p>
<p class="mhangindent">But every neck is a hairy trombone</p>
<p class="mhangindent">(<i>Rtt-ta-ta-ta!</i> is a hairy trombone!)</p>
<p class="mhangindent">And this is our marching song:</p>
<p class="mhangindent"><i>Can't!  Don't!  Shan't!  Won't!</i></p>
<p class="mhangindent">Pass it along the line!</p>
<p class="mhangindent">Somebody's pack has slid from his back,</p>
<p class="mhangindent">Wish it were only mine!</p>
<p class="mhangindent">Somebody's load has tipped off in the road&mdash;</p>
<p class="mhangindent">Cheer for a halt and a row!</p>
<p class="mhangindent"><i>Urrr!  Yarrh!  Grr!  Arrh!</i></p>
<p class="bhangindent">Somebody's catching it now!<br /></p>

<p class="center">ALL THE BEASTS TOGETHER</p>

<div class="stanza">
<span class="i2">Children of the Camp are we,</span><br />
<span class="i2">Serving each in his degree;</span><br />
<span class="i2">Children of the yoke and goad,</span><br />
<span class="i2">Pack and harness, pad and load.</span><br />
<span class="i2">See our line across the plain,</span><br />
<span class="i2">Like a heel-rope bent again.</span><br />
<span class="i2">Reaching, writhing, rolling far,</span><br />
<span class="i2">Sweeping all away to war!</span><br />
<span class="i2">While the men that walk beside,</span><br />
<span class="i2">Dusty, silent, heavy-eyed,</span><br />
<span class="i2">Cannot tell why we or they</span><br />
<span class="i2">March and suffer day by day.</span><br />
<span class="i4"><i>Children of the Camp are we,</i></span><br />
<span class="i4"><i>Serving each in his degree;</i></span><br />
<span class="i4"><i>Children of the yoke and goad,</i></span><br />
<span class="i4"><i>Pack and harness, pad and load.</i></span>
</div>
</div>

</section></body></html>
